how-to: add doc on how to scale with TiUP (#2239)
pingcap/docs: how-to/scale/with-tiup.md

---
title: Scale the TiDB Cluster Using TiUP
summary:
Category: how-to
---

# Scale the TiDB Cluster Using TiUP

The capacity of a TiDB cluster can be increased or decreased without affecting the online services.

> This document describes how to scale the TiDB, TiKV, PD or TiFlash nodes using TiUP. If you have not installed TiUP, [install TiUP on the Control Machine](/how-to/upgrade/using-tiup.md#install-tiup-on-the-control-machine) and import the cluster into TiUP before you scale the TiDB cluster.

Author: This link points to a file in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/2232 (open).

```

### 3.2 Run the scale-in 

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster scale-in <cluster-name> --node 10.0.1.5:20160
```

The `--node` parameter is the ID of the node to be taken offline.

If you see the `Scaled cluster <cluster-name> in successfully`, the scale-in operation is successfully completed.

### 3.3 Check the cluster status

The offline process takes some time. If the node to be scaled in becomes `Tombstone`, that means the offline operation is successful.

To check the offline status, run the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup cluster display <cluster-name>
```

The current topology is as follows:

| Host IP   | Service   |
|:----|:----|
| 10.0.1.3   | TiDB + TiFlash   |
| 10.0.1.4   | TiDB + PD + TiFlash   |
| 10.0.1.5   | TiDB + Monitor **(TiKV is deleted)**   |
| 10.0.1.1   | TiKV    |
| 10.0.1.2   | TiKV    |

Access the monitoring platform at <http://10.0.1.5:3200> using your browser to monitor the status of the cluster.

## 4. Scale in a TiFlash node

If you want to remove the TiFlash node from the `10.0.1.4` host, take the following steps.

> **Note:**
>

> > The offline process described in this section does not delete the data on the offline node. If you need to take the node online again, delete the data manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The scale-in process described in this section does not delete the data on the node that goes offline. If you need to bring the node back again, delete the data manually.
```

### 4.1 Take the node offline

> Take down the node to be scaled in. See [Take a TiFlash node down](/reference/tiflash/maintain.md#take-a-tiflash-node-down) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To take offline the node to be scaled in, refer to [Take a TiFlash node down](/reference/tiflash/maintain.md#take-a-tiflash-node-down).
```

### 4.2 Check the node status

> Check whether the node has been offline successfully using Grafana or pd-ctl (the offline process takes some time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scale-in process takes some time.

You can use Grafana or pd-ctl to check whether the node has been successfully taken offline.
```

> ### 4.3 Shutdown the TiFlash process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4.3 Stop the TiFlash process
```

> After the `store` corresponding to TiFlash disappears, or the `state_name` becomes `Tombstone`, execute the following command to shutdown the TiFlash process:

Reviewer: shutdown -> stop

> After the `store` corresponding to TiFlash disappears, or the `state_name` becomes `Tombstone`, execute the following command to shutdown the TiFlash process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the `store` corresponding to TiFlash disappears, or the `state_name` becomes `Tombstone`, execute the following command to stop the TiFlash process:
```

---
title: Scale the TiDB Cluster Using TiUP
summary:

> Category: how-to

Reviewer: summary: xxx
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/stable/how-to/scale/with-tiup/']

Reviewer: @ran-huang Please fix the meta info after the doc special week.

Author: OK
